Technical Assessment - .net lead - 3

A. Data Structures & Algorithms
Question 1: Sort and Count Duplicates
Problem Statement: You are given an array of integers that may contain duplicates. Your task is to sort the array in non-decreasing order and count how many 
times each unique integer appears in the array. The output should include the sorted array followed by the counts of each unique integer in the format 'number: count! 
If there are no elements in the input array, return an empty result. 
The input will contain at most 10,000 integers, and each integer will be between -1,000,000 and 1,000,000.
Input Format - First line contains an integer n representing the number of elements in the array. 
The next line contains n space-separated integers representing the elements of the array.
Output Format - First line should contain n space-separated integers representing the sorted array. 
Each subsequent line should contain a unique integer followed by its count, formatted as 'number: count! If there are no elements to process, output nothing.

Sample Input
6
312231
Sample Output
1 1 2 2 3 3
1: 2
2: 2

Question 2: Find Maximum Depth
Problem Statement
You are given a binary tree represented by its root node. Your task is to find the maximum depth of the tree. The maximum depth is defined as the number of nodes 
along the longest path from the root node down to the farthest leaf node. A leaf node is a node with no children. 
If the tree is empty (ie., the root is null), then the maximum depth should be 0. The input will consist of a series of integer values representing nodes 
in level order, where -1 indicates that a node does not exist (null). You need to construct the binary tree from this input and then determine its maximum depth.
Input Format
The first line contains integers separated by spaces representing the level order traversal of the binary tree. 
Each value corresponds to a node's value, and -1 represents a null node.
Output Format
A single integer representing the maximum depth of the binary tree.
Sample Input
3 9 20-1-1 15 7
Sample Output
3

Question 3: Finds the length of the shortest path in a directed graph from a starting node to a target node using Breadth-First Search (BFS). 
A list of tuples representing directed edges, where each tuple contains three integers (u, v, w) I indicating an edge from node u to node v with weight w.
The length of the shortest path in terms of the number of edges traversed, or -1 if no path exists.

B. Inventory Management System
LLD - Low-Level Design
You are tasked with designing an inventory management system for a retail company. The system must track products, their quantities, and locations within the warehouse. 
It should support operations such as adding new products, updating stock levels after sales or restocking, and generating reports on inventory status. 
Additionally, the system must allow for different product categories, each with unique attributes like size or color. 
Users should be able to search for products based on various criteria and receive alerts when stock levels fall below a certain threshold. 
Your design must accommodate future requirements such as integrating with third-party suppliers for automatic restocking or supporting multiple warehouses 
without significant changes to existing code. Furthermore, it should enable easy addition of new product categories in the future while maintaining clear 
separation of concerns among different components.
Constraints
. Each product category must have its own management logic that can be independently developed and tested
. New product types must be addable without modifying existing inventory management implementations
. The system must support real-time updates to stock levels across multiple warehouse locations

C. SQL Queries
You are tasked with generating a report for the customer service team to better understand their client base. The report should include the customer's full name, 
which is a combination of their first and last names, as well as their email address. You have access to the following 
table: ""customers** (customer_id INT PRIMARY KEY, first_name VARCHAR NOT NULL, last_name VARCHAR NOT NULL, email VARCHAR NOT NULL). 
Write a query that retrieves the customer's full name by concatenating their first and last names and displays it alongside their email address. 
Ensure that the full name appears in a user-friendly format.
Answer:

-- Step 1: Create the customers table
CREATE TABLE #customers (
    customer_id INT PRIMARY KEY,
    first_name VARCHAR(50) NOT NULL,
    last_name VARCHAR(50) NOT NULL,
    email VARCHAR(100) NOT NULL
);

-- Step 2: Insert sample data (initial + 10 more)
INSERT INTO #customers (customer_id, first_name, last_name, email)
VALUES
(1, 'Ram', 'Kumar', 'ram.kumar@example.com'),
(2, 'Anita', 'Sharma', 'anita.sharma@example.com'),
(3, 'John', 'Doe', 'john.doe@example.com'),
(4, 'Priya', 'Reddy', 'priya.reddy@example.com'),
(5, 'Suresh', 'Patel', 'suresh.patel@example.com'),
(6, 'Meena', 'Gupta', 'meena.gupta@example.com'),
(7, 'Arjun', 'Singh', 'arjun.singh@example.com'),
(8, 'Kavita', 'Iyer', 'kavita.iyer@example.com'),
(9, 'David', 'Brown', 'david.brown@example.com'),
(10, 'Sophia', 'Wilson', 'sophia.wilson@example.com'),
(11, 'Rajesh', 'Nair', 'rajesh.nair@example.com'),
(12, 'Neha', 'Verma', 'neha.verma@example.com'),
(13, 'Michael', 'Johnson', 'michael.johnson@example.com'),
(14, 'Emily', 'Taylor', 'emily.taylor@example.com');

-- Step 3: Select query to retrieve full name and email
SELECT 
    CONCAT(first_name, ' ', last_name) AS full_name,
    email as email_address
FROM #customers;

DROP TABLE #customers
Other Answer:
SELECT CASE
		WHEN first_name IS NULL AND last_name IS NULL THEN ''
		WHEN first_name IS NULL AND last_name IS NOT NULL THEN last_name
		WHEN last_name IS NULL AND first_name IS NOT NULL THEN first_name
		ELSE CONCAT(first_name, ' ', last_name)
		END AS full_name
		, email as email_address 
  FROM customers;